From hanselminutes.com it's Hansel minutes
or weekly discussion with web
developer and technologists. Scott Hanselman.
This is Lawrence Ryan announcing show
number two Oh eight. Recorded
live Thursday, March 18th, 2010. Support for
Hanselman it's as provided by
Tellerik R a D controls
the most comprehensive suite of
components for windows forms and
asp.net web applications online@wwwdottlerik.com. In
this episode, Scott talks with
East strategy development manager, Jade
Bailey. Hi, this is Scott
Hanselman, and this is another
episode of Hansel minutes, and
I'm here in the beautiful
wind Las Vegas casino. And
I'm sitting down and in
fact, with Jade Bailey, who
is in charge of social
media for, for the, the
resort, is that, is that
true? Yes, that's correct. So
yeah, this is interesting to
me in a couple of
levels, you have a social
media strategy because you're not
just a PR person. Your
title is what is it?
Director of sales, It's East
strategy development manager Development manager.
And how does one get
a job like that? It
was sort of an evolution
for me. I started off
with when as a, in
a, in a public relations
capacity and sort of grew
into this role. And originally
it was a lot more
broad than social media. It
was all online strategy development.
So it included some of
the analytics for our website
and also our mobile strategy.
And then social media was
a component of it, which
was a really, really good
fit. And we saw that
there was a need for
more and more social media
activity. And that's how I
ended up spending most of
my time. So this role
sort of was a natural
progression for me. When did,
when as an organization start
to realize that social media
was going to be something
and we didn't when we
realize it or did it,
was it a kind of
a grassroots We knew, we
realized that there was a
need for it for a
long time. However, we're, we're,
we're a big brand, we're
a luxury brand. And the
way that we were, the
way that you have to
communicate in social media, it
was a departure for the
way that we were, nor
we normally communicate with our
guests. So because it was
new and, you know, the
brand has a lot of
equity. It was, it was
something that we proceeded with
caution. So we spent a
lot of time looking at
whether I was really doing
and monitoring and sort of
eyeing the pool before jumping
in. So I'm hearing kind
of underneath that, that, that
there might've been some concern
that with, with a brand
of, of the stature and
of the quality of the
guests that you expect, that
it might cheapen the brand
by introducing, you know, Twitter
or Facebook, these kind of
young hip and unproven things.
Exactly that. And also there
was, there was a fear
of, because, because of the
immediacy of social media, you
know, for example, we have,
we have a four nightclubs
or three nightclubs at when
an Encore and people wait
on people, wait on line
at the nightclubs to get
in until two in the
morning. And what would happen
if an angry club goer
sent a tweet at one
o'clock in the morning and
was like, this place stinks.
Like I can't get in,
you know, how would we,
how would we see that?
And how would we fix
it with the level of
service that we are accustomed
to, and that we have
promised to our guests, And
do you run multiple Twitter
accounts and is Twitter your
primary way of using social
media? We run, we currently
run two Twitter accounts because
we have two hotels. So
one for win. And one
for Encore, which is the
sister hotel and the wind
collection. We have Facebook fan
pages for both Wynn and
Encore. We have a YouTube
channel for wind resorts, and
we, we are active participants
in a lot of the
user generated content sites, such
as Yelp and TripAdvisor, which
are, which are very important
for our business. Can you
juxtapose, like how you would
use a fan page on
Facebook with how you use
you use Twitter? Is it
is a fan page. I
mean, someone clicks I'm a
fan, so what, right. How
are they engaging with it?
It is engaging with the
brand there's engaging between with
the customer service and the
personalities behind the brand. What
kind of communication goes out
on a fan page versus
what kinda communication goes on
on Twitter? It's actually really
interesting that you asked that
because I often think how
are Twitter and Facebook different?
And they, I know that
they distinctly are, but something
really interesting happened to us
on Facebook recently that had
hasn't yet to happen on
Twitter. And I posted a,
I posted a picture of
a shoe from one of
our, one of, one of
our boutiques here. And we
have a lot of very
expensive things that win. And
so this was a very
expensive shoe and a couple
of guests have written back,
Oh, it's so beautiful. It's
so beautiful. And then one
woman wrote, Oh, this is
a great shoe. I'm coming
to win this weekend. I'm
going to call Troy who
I know works there. And
then I, I, I, you
know, I looked away for
a little while and then
I checked back a few
hours later in Troy, the
employee saw it and he
remembered this gas and he
was like, hi, I'll be
there from this hour to
this hour. This is a
limited collection shoe. We only
have 12 of them. Ladies,
if you want a pair
call, you know, call me
and I'll ship them to
you. And I was flabbergasted.
I was like, this is
the best example of an
employee actively engaging in, in
social media. Yeah. Well, and
was this just something, it
was Troy and empowered to
do that as an employee?
Is there like a blog
smart policy or is there,
I mean, what is your
policy for letting someone like
that engage directly with a
guest bypassing all the usual.
We have a social media
policy and very technically speaking
that wa that was not
in accordance with our policy.
However, it was, it was
such a great example that,
you know, it's things like
that, that I, then I
then use as data points
for saying, we need a
more open social media policy,
But you didn't of course,
go to Troy and get
him in trouble for doing
that. No, not at all,
not at all. It was,
it was a, it's one
of my favorite stories of
employee engagement That is going
on. Now. That's something that
he wouldn't have been able
to do using Twitter, because
I assume that you controlled
access to Twitter and you
probably use a Twitter management
suite of some kind to,
to manage that. And you
do tweet yourself. You're the
person who tweets behind the
yes, yes. And patrol does
not. So he was in,
it was enabled. He was
enabled to do that. He
was paying attention. He saw
it happen. He was empowered
as a Facebook user to
simply comment and say, Hey,
it's me. Is that the
way that you would have
expected a fan page to
be used? Or do you,
do you post like videos
and promotional things on the
fan page? Is it more
of like a portable press
release? Wait, it's definitely, it's
definitely a viable Avenue for
us to communicate with, with,
with media. We also upload
videos that we've posted on
our YouTube channel. It's really
a place for us. It's
really a place for us
to communicate with our guests
and our fans about relevant
things that are going on
in Vegas and things that
are going on with the
hotel. One of the things
that I've always wondered about
is how much the, the
number of followers that someone
has affects their customer service.
And I've got into a
number of arguments with some
of my followers on Twitter.
Who've said that I'm getting
an unreasonable amount of quality
service. Let's say because of
my follower account recently I
tweeted to American to United
airlines. Rather that I left
my Amazon Kindle on a
plane. And within about 12
to 17 hours, that was
back in my hands. Someone
had made the right call
and it was empowered to
make change and got me
my Kindle back. And a
lot of people were like,
great, that's awesome. Social media,
United airlines, you all rock.
And everyone else like, well,
yeah, you have 25,000 followers.
That's totally artificial. I have
12 followers and he would
never do that to me.
What is, how do you
make those kinds of decisions?
And do you even pay
attention? I definitely do pay
attention because unfortunately the number
of followers is, is a
widely used indicator of how
influential you are on Twitter.
But I try not, I
don't let that influence my
decision. Basically, we are looking
for, we're looking, we use
Twitter and social media as
an extension of our guest
service. And if you are
a guest, regardless of how
many followers you have, if
you have some sort of
problem or some question, and
it's legitimate, we can, we
can usually tell and immediately
we'll respond to you. Okay.
I think it's pretty clear
for people to pay attention
to Twitter and Mashable and
dig that, you know, it
only takes one tweet and
that person could have one
follower for something to turn
in, you know, turn into
a problem. That's exactly right.
And of course, one of
the things that's always frustrating
to me is that once
something bad has been said,
once someone has taken some,
I call it giving bile
a permalink, you take some
negativity and put it out
there. That's going to always
be out there. Do you,
do you ever like say
to a guest after they've
said something negative and you've
resolved their problem, do you
have them go back and,
and tell their friends, or
you say, can you remove
that negativity? Or do you
just keep it out there
as part of the conversation,
I go back and forth
about that. Sometimes if it's,
if it's really, really negative
and we've fixed it and
the guest is wowed, and
it's very clear that they're
wowed, then I'll sort of
ask them offline and say,
Hey, you know, do remind
removing that. But some, if
it's, if it's sort of
neutral, then, then we'll usually
leave it because I don't
believe that you should have,
they should have all positive
content out there. I think
that negative gives all of
the content a little bit
more of a realistic factor.
Yeah. You definitely want to
make the conversation authentic, but
at the same time, you
don't want to feel like
you've got your, you know,
your, your thumb on the
roulette wheel, right. You don't
want to make it artificial.
And that seems to be
a balance because I think
also that if you were,
if the person took offense
at that, they might, in
fact, that could backlash. Right.
And if the guests said,
wow, I can't believe we
did that. And that could
turn into a whole thing
as well. And you guys,
speaking of follower count, you
have a lot of followers
on Twitter. Where are you
at the time of this
recording? We're at about 335,000
or the most valid hotel
in the world on Twitter.
And, and how does something
like that happen when you're
a hotel? You don't, I
assume someone at some point
launched a browser and said,
create new accounts. Was that
done by you? And you
said, when and went on
Gore, did you go and
call the folks at Twitter
and verify that account and
make that happen? The initial,
when Las Vegas account I
believe was, was being held
by a squatter. So we
were able to have a
release to us. Huh. So
you're able to go and
say, we verify this and
is that verification process via
kind of phone calls and
Skype? I mean, how do
they tell that you're really
who you are? You could
build a whole thing. What
would you, I wasn't involved
in that, that was, that
was done before, before my
time in social media. Yeah.
And I understand that that,
that Twitter gets involved with,
with kind of large accounts
and sometimes people will get
added to what's called the
suggested user list. And what
does that, and has that
played a role in your
success? Sure. So when, when
was added to the suggested
users list in October, it
was a tremendous surprise. It
wasn't something that we asked
for nor was it something
that we really wanted, but
it happened. And we were
in, you know, we've reaped
the benefits in terms of
number of followers. We grew
at, you know, a few
thousand followers per day for,
for quite some time. And
you said you ran two
accounts, though. You have one
for wind and one for
wind Encore. Does that one
have a similar number of
followers or is that growing
more organically? No, the Encore
account grows organically. And how
many does that have right
now? A little over 4,000.
So how, how, as someone
who is honestly answering these
tweets, if someone who opens
up tweet deck or a
coach wheat and says, alright,
I've got two accounts that
I'm going to manage. One
has 4,000 clearly highly engaged
followers because they chose to
follow you, which, you know,
4,000 is a nontrivial number
as well as 300,000, who
may be slightly less engaged
because they were suggested, do
you find a difference in
managing two different accounts of
a similar type with dramatically
different follower counts? Two accountants
are, are interesting. They are,
they're fairly similar comments that
come in. I don't prioritize
which, which one I'll respond
to more because of the,
the variants and follower count.
However, I, I do notice
that because Encore has less
followers and because it is
not as high profile as
the wind account, that's the
one that I can experiment
a little bit more with.
That's the one I use
to respond a little bit
more to, to folks on,
Hi, this is Scott Hanselman
from another parallel universe, got
to tell you about some
of our things our sponsors
are doing. They make this
free podcast possible. If you're
developing a new line of
business application, you've probably tried
the latest version of server
light. Now you can get
even better results by combining
the functionality and server Lite
for beta, with some of
the richness or the third
party controls from our friends
at Tellerik, they're the first
vendors to offer native support
for the server Lite for
beta and their rad controls.
They've got a new Silverlight
for CTP suite of these
controls. They let you tap
into the frameworks, great potential.
You've got native, right mouse
click and all the new
features, a server line there's
38 controls that give you
all these features. You can
start building those compelling line
of business applications right away.
I encourage you to check
those products out at tellerik.com/silverlight
and, you know, thank Tellerik
for supporting Donald rock, supporting
Hansel minutes on their Facebook
fan page at facebook.com/tellerik. Now
back to the show, do
you find that having 300,000
people following you creates a
lot of noise and just
a lot of nonsense by,
by, by some fraction of
the followers who might be
not engaged, or if those
people find that, that they're
not interesting. Once you have
to say they simply unfollow,
I'm trying to get a
sense that if the difference
between you, you have a
very interesting opportunity from an,
from a social media experiment
perspective of like two similar
accounts, one on the, on
the, what they call the
stool or the suggested user
list. And what not do
you have 300,000 deeply engaged
users? And that does that.
Now that you're, are you
still on this tool at
this point? Are you still
on the streets? So you're
growing a lot on that
particular account. Do you find
that they may not even
be familiar with the wind
date? They may not have
followed you as a, as
an intense fan, but now
that they have, you know,
they're more likely to, to
come here. Right? Well, I
feel, I feel both ways
about that question. I feel
that social media is a
longterm strategy, so because you're
not a fan of us
and because you don't know
of us now, that doesn't
mean that, you know, you,
you know, through reading our
tweets because you follow us,
it gives us an opportunity
to, to passively, you know,
be, be in the followers
mind. And do you have
a way to attach that?
Like I assume that there's
someone, some older gentleman or
lady, some boss type in
a suit up in, you
know, I always think of
the Las Vegas television show
when there's like, you know,
the boss, right. Do they
want to know Jade? How
many people have come here
because of you and the
work that you're doing is
that, is that what it's
about attracting new people or
is it about just maintaining
a level of satisfaction and
quality? I would say first
and foremost, the goal is
to provide the same level
of service that we're known
for throughout the resort in
person to provide that, that
level of service online, I
would say the goal would,
would then be to increase
or to drive incremental revenue.
And by that, I mean,
utilizing Twitter's geo geolocation services
and talking to highly relevant
followers, or they might not
even be followers, but folks
that are just tweeting about
Vegas and tweeting about restaurants
who, you know, are in
town and they're relevant. And
they're looking for a place
to have dinner tonight where
it would be, it would
make sense for when to
jump in and say, Hey,
have you tried our buffet?
Yeah, that was interesting. That's
my next question is that,
you know, were you using
a tool like tweet deck
or Seesmic or one of
these things that has like
multiple columns there's people who
are following Lynn. And then
there are people who talking
about the, when, how much,
how much do you find
people replying to you versus
people just talking about you
and you kind of butt
in, because you know, Twitter
is kind of a cocktail
party where it's okay to
interrupt someone talking about a
particular subject. A lot of
ICS actually usually see more,
more people talking about win
than actually including our handle.
So I see a lot
of my, my main search
is just the word win.
And I see a lot
of, I see a lot
of people talking about that
and the responses is usually
positive. It's always sort of
funny for me. I get
my sort of nerdy giggles.
This one, You kind of
lit up when I told
you that, because obviously this
is a part of your
life. This happens all the
time. Yeah. So I, I
see people in there they're
so surprised that the hotel
writes them back. Yeah. I've
seen, I see people say,
ah, tweeting, you know, I'm
coming to Vegas next month
with my friends. Should I
stay at Bellagio or city
center? Or when, or, you
know, what buffet should I
go to tonight? And I'll
see their followers write them
back. And then that's usually
how I see the mention
of when. And then I
often jump in and there,
and they're like, Oh my
gosh, the hotel tweeted me.
I can't believe it. And
I know you were telling
me as we were getting
ready to set up here,
that you even tweeted about
like what you would think
of as being fairly banal
things like, Oh, the weather
is great in Vegas right
now, which one might even
think of being kind of
cheesy, but you're getting people
excited about that. They're engaged
about like, Oh, we're in,
we're in New York. Is it
really nice over there? Yeah.
That actually that works well.
I was, I was sort
of on the fence about
that, about that recently. And
then I, but then I
was thinking that, you know,
the vast majority of our
followers are not in Las
Vegas. People visit like Vegas
between three and four times
a year. So the majority
of the time they're not
here, but they're still following
us. So it's a way
for us to keep our
content relevant and keep our
followers up. So it's not
like, Oh, when it's only
talking about the special that
they have for Vegas this
weekend, like, I'm tired of
hearing about that. So I
know that the East coast
has been pounded with bad
weather lately and you know,
we're letting you know in
a nice playful way that
the weather is great in
Vegas. Yeah. And now currently
you're as understanding that the
only person who's tweeting on
behalf of the wind, but
potentially you could build a
team if this became a
larger, larger situation for you.
That's the goal. And as
you're doing this, since you're
the single pair of eyeballs,
we'll say that's looking at
least at Twitter. Although we
know Troy is looking at
Facebook that, do you have
certain followers that you you're
actually having an ongoing kind
of like month by month
conversation with you? Like, Oh,
what's that guy again? And
he's like, he just really
is into talking about the
wind We do. That was
one of my first favorite
things about Twitter within, I
think within the two weeks
we started engaging with his
follower. His name is Brian
Fe and he is a
die hard wind fan. Every
time he comes to Vegas,
he usually stays at the
hotel. His daughter's middle name
is Wynn named after the
hotel. You'll see such a
big fan. This is exactly
why we need to be
on social media. Why? Because
there are these hardcore evangelists
and that's the thing he's,
you know, he's a, he's
a, he's a, he's a
regular guy. He wouldn't, you
know, he's not a hot
and a by regular, I
mean, you know, he's not,
he's not a high roller,
so yeah. So he wouldn't,
you know, he wouldn't, you
know, sort of like, He
wouldn't like call you and
roll in, like I'm coming
to the wind, get the
limo ready in the suite.
Right. Right. And, you know,
and in a casino that
those are usually the, what
are considered the VIP guests.
So it was, it was,
it's been great to find
fans like that As a
VIP guest in the sense
that you know him and
that he's excited. So he's
just as important. The, I
would assume as potentially someone
that's for sure. Apparently because
you know, those followers, I
have women, we've got a,
we've got a handful of
highly engaged fans and the,
and they're, they're great because
I can always count on
them for things. If someone
writes a, you know, occasionally
we get, we get negative,
negative tweets about, you know,
some of the fees, for
example, it's everywhere in Vegas,
it's four 99 to use
an ATM. That's fine. That's
a standard, that's a Vegas
thing. Not a wind thing,
Not a Vegas thing. It's
not a wind thing. Yeah.
But people that are staying
at the hotel will attribute
it to win. And they'll
say you're nickel and diming
your guests by charging a
four, nine, 10 ATM fee.
So then I can, you
know, privately ask are one,
you know, one of our
highly engaged followers to, to
write back to this person
and tell them that it's
a Vegas thing, that it's
not just a wind thing.
That means so much more
than, you know, the hotel
writing back. Right. How, how
often has someone actually giving
you a legitimate suggestion you
had never thought of, and
you've actually implemented at the
wind like, wow, that would
be great. If we had
a little placard that said
this in the rooms, or
maybe if we said this
to the guest, if you
have, you actually changed how
you do the hotel business
based on Twitter as suggestion
box, We haven't yet. But
I think that we will
in the future, Really, you
think that the, that your
relationship now that you've built
up this, this, and I
say your relationship with the,
with the higher ups is
such that you've proven that
this is a valid customer
service and, you know, starting
point, I would certainly say
so, do you, do you
ever find yourself directing people
to like standard customer service?
I mean, you can't really
solve a person's problem in
140 characters, or, I mean,
are, can you, I can't
usually solve the problem in
one tweet that is 140
characters. It usually takes, it
usually takes a while. Last,
last night I was tweeting
with a guest who was
a potential guest from Scotland
who had, he had a
specific offer that he had
received by email for us.
And the offer was for
a room with one bed,
a standard room, because we
don't have very many rooms
with two beds. So he
wanted to book four of
these rooms and they all
needed to be this double
room that did not, that
was not included in its
promo that he received. And
I was telling him, unfortunately,
the best way that he
had to do this was
to book this online and
then call the hotel and,
and switch the rooms. It's
a very specific requirement. Yeah.
It was very specific, but
the entire exchange was happening
at, you know, one o'clock
in the morning, his time
in Scotland. And Well, you
were, of course you were
enabling that guy Wired five
or six, five or six
DMS, and sort of get
to that. So it's, it's
really hard to answer it
in one in one post.
That's interesting though. You said
DMS. So you were actually,
what is the ratio of
direct messages that you'll send
to people and try to
solve their problem versus solving
it in a, in person?
Do you, as a, as
a representative of this organization,
take it to dynamic, direct
message quickly and say, follow
me and I'll handle it.
Or do you try to
have the conversation in public?
I try to keep the
conversation private, if I can,
for the sake, for the
sake of not clogging up
our stream with a bunch
of out replies to one
person. If I know it's
going to take, if it's,
I know if it's something
that I can't fix immediately,
or if there's any sort
of customer information. So if
a guest tweets us and
says, I want to come
to Vegas in two months,
what what's special? Can you
offer me? And if it's
something that if they're, if
they're a casino player and
I need their red card
information, which is our frequent
player card, I wouldn't want
them to send that information
publicly. I would want it
privately. Or if it's someone
that wants to reservation confirmed,
I'll ask them to send
me that information privately. Do
you think that a, you
know, five years, 10 years
down the road, that this
is going to be considered
as acceptable as like a
one 800 number, or is
it always going to be
slightly different from, I think
it will get to be
more mainstream in time. One
of the things that I've
noticed a more kind of
more sophisticated Twitter accounts doing
is when they do a
reply and an at reply,
they'll add a dot or
they'll add an R in
front of it, so that
it is a reply it's,
but it's more of a
mention. So here's something that
I'm sending to you directly,
but really the larger group
would like to hear that.
Have you implemented that here?
Not too often. I have
once in a while, but
not, not too often. Do
you give much thought into
that kind of stuff that
let the idea that there
are people who are watching
in the sense of they're
they're following you. And of
course, if you reply to
someone they're not going to
see it, unless they follow
that person too. And with
so many followers, it's probably
very rare. Do you like,
do you find yourself retreating
things? I do. I'm an,
I'm an active re tweeter.
I believe in that, you
know, we're all members of
this community and I, I
really believe in re-tweeting. So
I retweet, you know, guests
who have taken great pictures
of themselves around the resort
or any sort of really
great feedback. I also retweet
some of our partners, for
example, Delta vacations. It's one
of our sales travel partners,
and they participate in travel
Tuesday a lot. And they,
they often tweet about when
an Encore and then I'll
usually retweet them when possible.
Also  is the, when
internet address just w Y
N n.com. Hey, it's when
Las Vegas, when Las vegas.com
it would be interesting to
get like a tiny URL,
like a wind custom, tiny
around like WWI dot Y
Ana, or like, if there
is a dot N and
implement something like that, that
would be cool. Yeah. Do
you track things like you
use, like Bitly and keep
track of stuff, and then
use that in reports? Do
you have to justify things
to people and say, look,
we tweeted this and the
link to a particular online
property was visited X number
of times. Do they pay
that kind of attention to
your metrics? That specific question
about the click-throughs? No, but
I, I certainly watch it
on my own for my
own growth purposes. It helps
me see that perhaps the
tone of the message or
the way I'm phrasing it
is, is not conducive to
a lot of throughs. Do
you give much thought to
time zones? Sometimes I find
myself because I have a
lot of followers on the
other side of the world.
I'll do a tweet at
eight in the morning, and
then the same tweet a
day to the night just
to get good coverage. No,
I haven't. I'm not sure
if I'm not sure if
I would do that, because
for, because I wouldn't want
to be repetitive. Right. And
you have a lot of
followers, I suppose someone could
say, I'm tired of hearing
about these things, and then
it would start feeling like
an advertising. Right. Right. I
mean, we're, it's, it's very
important for us. As I,
as I have been mentioning
the entire interview as is
luxury brand, we don't want
to be standing out on
the street with our microphone,
broadcasting, the specials that we
currently have going on. We
really, we know that our,
we know that we have
customers in this channel and
we want to be here
as a support network for
them and an information network.
Well, I really appreciate you
sitting down with me today
because one of the things
that I, that I kind
of get from you is
that you're, you're interested in
protecting your brand and, and,
and helping your brand be
successful online, but not in
that kind of overly corporate
way. You know what I'm
saying? I mean, I feel
it, that, that, it sounds
like since you were in
charge of this, this East
strategy, that there's a, there's
an authenticity. Cause it sounds
like the wind is beginning
to understand that, you know,
you can be real and
still be, you know, a
high end brand and position
yourself as such. And it
does. And does, does anyone
question that, did they feel
that you've cheapened the brand
by, by doing this foray
into online a YouTube channel,
a Twitter? I don't think
so. I mean, there were
certainly skeptics in the beginning
as there always are when
you're, when you're our work
in the new media and
emerging technology space. But I
think that the success that
we've had with Twitter has
been, has been great because
it has, it has confirmed
like the sign off or
the buy in from most
of our key executives, which
is really what we need
to get the type of
freedom to explore this space
even more. So what are
the Twitter accounts that listeners
should follow to, to see
your work? Our, our Twitter
accounts are at Wynn Las
Vegas and at Encore Las
Vegas. Very cool. Thank you
so much, Jay. Really for
chatting with me today. Thank
you very much. This has
been another episode of Hansel
minutes and I'll see you
again next week.